less than a day after repelling a direct
aerial assault by Iran Israel is
weighing its response prime minister
Benjamin netan who has met with his War
cabinet its members are set to favor
responding to the attack but are divided
over when and how hard to strike back
Iran launched more than 300 drones
cruise missiles and ballistic missiles
in the overnight attack but nearly all
were intercepted by Israel the Us and
other nations world leaders have urged
restraint with US President Joe Biden
telling Netanyahu that Washington will
not participate in any military
retaliation against Iran Tran says the
assault was itself retaliation for an
attack on its Embassy in Damascus
earlier this month that killed two top
ranking
generals flashes in the sky over
Jerusalem and ionome in
action this footage shows the
interception of missiles and drones
launched by by
Iran after the first ever direct
military attack on Israel from Iranian
territory concern is growing over a
possible further
escalation Israeli War Cabinet member
Benny Gans made a defiant statement that
did little to elay those
fears this incident is not over we will
build a regional Coalition and collect
the price from Iran in a way and at a
time that suits us
US President Joe Biden reaffirmed what
he called America's Ironclad commitment
to the security of Israel but the White
House added Biden had told Netanyahu
that the US would not participate in any
Israeli counter offensive against Iran
in tan prover Iranians took to the
streets to celebrate the wave of strikes
against
Israel the elite revolutionary guard
says the overnight assault was a
response to a deadly air strike on the
Iranian embassy compound in Syria
earlier this month which killed several
of its most senior commanders Iran's
mission to the United Nations wrote on
social media that its attack on Israel
can be deemed concluded the Iranian
foreign minister made a statement after
the attack that seemed to be aimed at
giving assurance that tan was not
looking to escalate the
conflict we notified our brothers in the
region where the United States has
military bases in their countries that
our goal is only to punish the Israeli
regime and that we are not seeking to
Target American bases in the
region but as Israel says its
confrontation with Iran is not over that
may do little to calm fears of a
full-scale regional
war and I'm now joined by our Middle
East analyst Shan rosanes Shan the
Israeli walk has been meeting uh what do
we know uh what came out of this meeting
it's more than 5 hours that they were
discussing uh it seems like there's a
consensus in Israel that they needs to
be some sort of a response but now the
question what is that response should be
you know we're talking about 45 years of
this uh tensions between Iran that
escalated into a shadow War uh in the
last decades and for Netanyahu it's been
his life mission uh to fent off Iran and
he's pushing back very strongly for a
response here we also know he has the
backing of the military and the defense
minister galland who's always been more
of a hardliner and against that we see
the minister guns who's more of a
moderate he's also a former uh chief of
the military and uh other two members of
the cabinet trying to push back what's
on the table what are the options going
Allin for Israel would be using this
excuse and going for the Iranian nuclear
uh um um facilities that would be
something that Israel had had been
hoping to do for a long time with
International Coalition uh maybe they
think this might be the time to get any
legitimacy from the world might just be
now that would be going all in but then
other than that there's also more
moderate responses either going directly
into military bases or military
facilities in and that were
participating in the attack yesterday
sort of a tit forat a very measured
response or going for any of Iran's more
strategic uh proxies in the region
trying to attack there and of course
there's always the covert operation sort
of the mild Cyber attack attacks have
we've been seeing any of these that
would be the lowest level of attack so
the idea is to send a message but how
can we send a message without alienating
the Americans and the International
Coalition of support that we're seeing
now uh coming together in uh hopes uh in
support of Israel and it's and its uh
war against Iran that would lead
directly to my my next question what
would Israel be able to gain from any
military response versus what it would
have to lose well the way Israel sees it
ever since October 7th uh they lost
their deterrence which was one of the
most strategic assets when it came to
their positioning in that region in the
Middle East and having lost that they
feel like the only way to gain it is
with force a lot of it this is why we're
seeing Israel uh so aggressively uh
operating whenever it does operate um so
they feel like this is about the the
standing of Israel in the region for the
long run what it can lose of course is
international support and mostly
American backing uh we know that Joe
Biden have said very clearly he will
support Israel Defense efforts but will
not support any attacks um we know we
have had a he has had a talk also with
the G7 uh uh
countries quite recently when they're
all trying to form together some sort of
a diplomatic package it will put
pressure in Iran and hopefully convince
Israel to uh you know uh fend off any
attacks and this is a lot of the on the
line for Israel because the very uh idea
of having a wedge between Israel and and
and the US that's for itself is quite an
achievement for Iran uh in the region so
of course that's also on the line well
the defense minister the Galan says that
this attack provides an opportunity to
cement a strategic Alliance uh against
Iran how could that local be a part of
that well of course the Americans we've
seen the Brits uh UK taking active part
in that and also the Sunni moderate uh
countries in the region we know for a
fact it was Jordan Israel's neighbor but
you know part of this Alliance
traditionally would also include uh
Egypt would also has a peace agreement
with Israel we also know there were uh
willingness from the Saudis we have all
the countries that are part of the Abram
Accord so Bahrain and so forth this is
um Biden's uh deal package that he's
trying to sell for for netan and his
government for quite some time uh
because of Gaza saying listen the bigger
if we zoom out of Gaza and the conflict
then they need to solve the Palestinian
problem we need to look at the bigger
problem in the Middle East and that is
no doubt Iran and the only way to defeat
on a long term is through cementing of
this moderate Alliance um Israel needs
to decide um if it's moving its you know
Focus from Iran from Gaza currently into
Iran what would that mean for the
hostages still left in Gaza for the goal
of eradicating Hamas who is still quite
uh active in Gaza and that's a very
tough dilemma that Israel is standing uh
in front and that's why we're seeing
this it's very hard for the Israeli
leadership that now to reach a consensus
Israel has in the last couple of years
um made progress in peace agreements and
and uh making friends in the region if
you will is this paying off now well
we've seen it yesterday no doubt I mean
jordanians have put their neck their
neck on the line not just for their
reasons they also want to fend off Iran
they've been seeing a lot of attacks
from Iran and through Irani proxies on
their borders um but but there's no
doubt that there's more than just Israel
who wants to defeat Iran in the region
there's more than that and the only
problem is that the current government
and the things we see in Gaza create a
situation where Israel canot really
leverage that uh properly and this is
where the Americans come in and say
please let us try to find diplomatic
ways in order to make it happen let's
try to find a diplomatic package to put
pressure on Iran um and we will see
partially why we will see more time
before Israel takes a decision is how to
make any to to make any to to reach any
agreement with the Americans and what
would be the most appropriate response
sh rzan is there our Middle East expert
thank you very
much leaders of the G7 Nations have
condemned Iran's attack on Israel during
a meeting that was convened by US
President Joe Biden following their
video conference they said they would
take measures to prevent an
uncontrollable Regional escalation in
the Middle East the leaders also called
on Iran to exercise SI restrained the
group's statement pledged to work
towards an immediate and sustainable
ceasefire in Gaza as
well the UN Security Council is holding
an emergency session over the attack
Secretary General Antonio gutes opened
the session by calling for maximum
restraint saying the region cannot
afford another
War it's time to step back from the
brink it's vital to avoid any action
that could lead to major military
confrontations on multiple fronts in the
Middle
East civilians are already bearing the
brunt and paying the highest
price and we have a shared
responsibility to actively engage all
parties concerned to prevent further
escalation Iran's overnight attack
against Israel was the first of its kind
the animosity between the two Nations
however goes back decades the October
7th terror attack against Israel was led
by the Iran Ally Hamas that escalated
those tensions from a proxy war to
direct attacks from both
sides the October 7th Terror attacks on
Israel shook the entire country to its
score Hamas widely perceived to have the
backing of Iran claimed
responsibility Iran distant itself from
the worst terrorist attack on its Arch
Enemy but it praised the
attackers we defend
Palestine we defend the
struggle we kiss the hands of those
intelligent and brave Palestinian youths
who planned the attack on the Zionist
regime we are proud of
them the US quickly reacted and warned
Iran to exercise caution we're surging
additional military system to the
Israeli Defense Force including
ammunition interceptors replenish the
Iron Dome and we moved the US carrier
Fleet to the Eastern Mediterranean they
were sending more fighter jets there in
that region and made it clear made it
clear to the
Iranians be careful Iranian backed
militias in Iraq and Syria Hezbollah in
Lebanon and houti rebels in Yemen
continued to launch attacks targeting
Israeli and US installations and forces
in the
region this is a battle against the
Iranian AIS Iranian access of Terror
which is now threatening to close the
maritime straight of Babel mandb this
threatens the freedom of navigation of
the entire world tensions escalated
further the Western world became more
involved the US and Britain launched
dozens of a strikes against Iran backed
HTI repels in Yemen after months of
attacks on Red Sea
shipping Israel also stepped up its
assaults on Iranian revolutionary guard
members and on Iranian proxies in the
region tit forat attacks continued in
the Middle
East but the April missile strike on
Iran's Embassy in Damascus that killed
Iranian generals was seen as a major
blow to Iran something that Iran said
LED it to directly attack Israel from
its
territory since October 7th Israel is
believed to have assassinated at least
18 Iranian commanders outside Iran's
borders after Iran's Islamic revolution
in 1979 Iran's previously friendly
relationship with Israel dramatically
changed it scrapped its recognition of
Israel claiming to Champion the
Palestinian cause the Islamic regime
became so hostile towards Israel that it
publicly stated it wanted to wipe Israel
off the map a policy that makes Iran
Israel's biggest
adversary and the current escalation
shows the shadow War Iran has been
waging with Israel for years now
threatens to turn into a very real and a
dangerous
conflict Germany's chancellor Olaf
Schulz has responded to the Iranian
assault while on a trip to China where
he'll be meeting with among others
president xiin ping he is here is what
he had to say
earlier we strongly condemn the Iranian
attack and warn against any further
escalation Iran must not continue down
this
path at the same time it's absolutely
clear to us that we stand in solidarity
with Israel which has every right to
defend
itself
we we will do everything we can to
prevent further escalation and will
therefore continue to pursue our current
course we can only warn everyone
especially Iran against continuing down
this path German chancelor FR speaking
then now let's bring in Alexander Miller
he's a member of the German Parliament
defense policy spokesman for the free
Democratic party which is uh part of the
governing Coalition here in Germany uh
for their parliamentary group and
chairman of the defense committee now we
just heard Olaf Schultz there calling
for restraint and German armed sales to
Israel have been under scrutiny uh
recently could German weapons be used by
Israel to retaliate and does that worry
you no um I don't think the German
weapons could be uh used because it is
um just a small parts there are no tanks
no airplanes uh nothing where you can uh
um
what what you can use um uh to to attack
any other country um so I'm not really
worried that uh German weapons would be
used on this now the Secretary General
of your uh party the fdp just called for
a different approach in Germany's Iran
policy uh what does he mean by
that um I think we have been too kind to
Iran in the in the last time um perhaps
some more sanctions should be checked uh
if we can even have even more sanctions
against Iran uh to make it clear that we
are not accepting that Iran and there
are marionet in in all around the Arabic
World in Lebanon in um Yemen and
everywhere else in Iraq uh that U um
that are making terrorist attacks and uh
unstabilized uh the world we we cannot
we we do not want to um look at this uh
without doing anything now following
this attack you expressed some hope for
peace in the Middle East in a tweet uh
and that sounds a bit counterintuitive
uh at this point what gives you reason
for that
optimism yes DW has also mentioned it um
the the fact that uh as well Saudi
Arabia as also jordania you know
jordania um there are a lot of um or
Jordan there are a lot of Palestine
people living there um uh both countries
have helped to um to to take um
attacking drowns terrorist drowns down
from the sky um to to help um protect
Israel and those countries are not um
classical friends of Israel and that
makes me gives me some hope that we will
have peace in the near East um in in the
next years perhaps
now is there anything that Germany can
uh do to help diffuse the
situation um not a lot um uh we we are
um an intermediate between um Israel and
Iran because we talk with with both
sides and we try to deescalate the
situation that's the one thing that we
can do uh but in military um terms we
will not uh be involved in anything uh
not in uh in in attacking Iran or
something like that um so it's just a
piece talks and trying to to talk with
both sides to deescalate that that's
what we can do Alexander M there member
of the German Parliament thank you very
much thank you and we can now speak to
hakob Schindler he's a senior director
of the counter extremism uh project uh
given the advanced warning with Mr
Shindler why do you think Iran launched
this
attack thank you so much for having me
clearly Iran um was under domestic
pressure of considerable proportions to
show response to what it says and
considers to be an attack on its
Sovereign soil when Israel attacked um
its Consulate in Damascus um however it
made apparently sure that it the damage
that this attack is met it out in on
Israel was quite limited not only did it
publicly save and it launched the drones
and the rockets giving ample war time
but as it turns out now today apparently
the Iranians briefed the Turkish
government who then in turn briefed the
US government and that uh the attack is
coming and it's going to be quite
limited but uh unfortunately we are now
in a situation that Iran for the very
first time has attacked Israel and that
really puts a lot of pressure on the
Israeli government in turn to now also
respond and the response is going to
determined on whether the situation
stabilizes escalates or slides into
original
War I mean if you just look into your
crystal ball what would be a likely
reaction you think from
Israel well it depends of whether you
are an optimist or a pessimist an
optimist would say a attack that is more
or less signaling yes we are responding
forcefully but it's business as usual so
an attack against um the Arsenal of
hisbah which is an immediate tactical
threat towards Israel because its
missile Arsenal can actually overwhelm
simply with the amount of ammunitions
that they have Israeli air defenses
however if you're a pessimist you could
say okay this is also a moment if there
ever was one where Israel could clearly
decide that it is now time to take out
the Iranian nuclear facilities which is
a long-term very strategic threat
against the existence of Israel um this
would of course then really result into
unforeseeable really Regional
escalations well How likely you think uh
is this to escalate into a regional
escalation a full-blown war between
Israel and
Iran well I mean we could clearly see
that all sides are trying to calm down
both sides so the Jordanian King
apparently told President Biden if the
gazin situation could be resolved um
this could not you know easily escalate
again um the Russians and the Chinese as
well as the Egyptians have called for
calmness the G7 has come for calmness in
just over 90 minutes the security
Council here is going to meet in New
York obviously it's going to condemn the
attack but
I I hope that the security Council will
also call for a measured uh and and
considerate uh further actions from all
sides so um The Diplomatic efforts are
there however it just simply is a very
difficult situation for Israel um it now
for the future will have to always
contend with the risk that if it moves
in any way shape or form against major
figures of Iranian proxies or major
figures of the iig which are supporting
these proxies which present a direct
threat to Iran and to Israel and it its
territory that it would have to always
also consider a potential Iranian air
strike um this is really a change
paradigm here and we've not yet found a
new equilibrium in the way that existed
before yesterday everybody keeps
pointing uh at the risk of escalation uh
in the Middle East uh Beyond uh Israel
and Iran uh is there this risk and and
and what is the risk who else could be
getting involved in in in fighting each
other no we are now already in a very
tense situation with not one but several
of the Iranian proxies uh around Israel
so not just Hamas but also already hisa
the houthis are continuing to harass
shipping in the Red Sea and were
shooting missiles and drones towards
Israel last night we have the Iraqi and
Syrian proxies that were also apparently
in some way ship of War involved in last
night's attacks these who these proxies
are of course instruments of the Iranian
regime but they are not uh they don't
all have an on and off level the closest
that Iran comes to fully control of
proxy really is hisa because it is an
Iranian generation however the houthis
are far more radical um than even the
Iranians are their slogan is death to
Israel death to the United States occurs
upon the Jews um and they are much
harder to control so escalation um and
in this current situation where everyone
is on a knce edge could also come simply
by these proxies without any particular
Israeli action or however measured the
Israeli reaction would be now
Jordan has intercepted missiles over its
territory as well is Jordan likely to
get involved more than
that well number one Jordan has uh the
second oldest peace treaty with Israel
after Egypt so obviously it's been in a
very close relationship with Israel um
for quite a long time however I don't
think militarily um the Jordanian Army
would be getting involved in an attack
on Iran Jordan and Iran don't have a
good relationships neither does Saudi
Arabia who also last night shot down
some missiles and drones apparently from
the houthis that were heading towards
Israel not the first time by the way
they' have done this several times the
last couple of months so that the battle
lines are clear there is a of course
anti-iranian majority and then there is
what the Iranians call the axis of
resistance I Iran certain elements in
Iraq are definitely the Syrian regime
and its proxies and I'm not really
surprised that both jordane Jordan and
Saudi Arabia were at least defending
their own territory against this blatant
violation of their air Space by the
Armenians last night now US President
Joe Biden said uh that the US would not
participate in a counter offensive
against Iran so let's talk about the
wording here not participate but maybe
tolerate I mean President Biden also
said he his support and US support for
Israel is IR am glad obviously that
extends to the fullest extent when it
comes to the defense of Israel
even the defense of the Israel when
there is a re should there be a reaction
against Israeli answer to the attack
last night however clearly uh the US
Administration as indeed in fact the
Israeli or the government or the Iranian
regime none of these three players are
fundamentally at this point interested
into starting a large scale Regional War
the problem is how can you prevent uh
you know the sliding into this war
without anyone want wanting it it
wouldn't be the first situation where
War start without any really seeing this
in their
interest thank you very much that was
hob shler from the counter extremism
project thank
you thank you so much for having me